Air gap blog (#153)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/11/airgap.md

---

> title: Air gap

Reviewer: How about "Installing and Running Kubewarden In Air-Gapped Environments"?

> title: Air gap

Author: title changed in https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/153/commits/a2052bb8baf7e36bcdf20a09f7ef6a50e9dda130

authors:
- Raul Cabello Martin
date: 2022-11-28
---

> We are glad to announce that Kubewarden can now be installed in air-gapped environments! For that, you will need a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are glad to announce that deploying Kubewarden in air-gapped environments has been simplified and documented! For that, you will need a 
```
(trying to make the point to users that we have made it just even simpler, and transmit that we already had a good stack, instead of an intermingled one)

> We are glad to announce that deploying Kubewarden in air-gapped environments has been simplified and documented! For that, you will need a 

Reviewer 3: nit picking: inside of the docs we used the term `air gap` instead of `air-gapped`. I think we should standardize on one term just to stay consistent

Author: done https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/153/commits/5a6476b4d1610a40ca086de4421ad0475af08597

private OCI registry accessible by your Kubernetes cluster. Kubewarden policies are WebAssembly modules. Therefore, 
they can be stored inside an OCI-compliant registry as OCI artifacts. 
For an air gap installation you need to download all the Kubewarden container images and policies in your workstation, 
then move them to your private OCI registry. Check the Kubewarden [docs](https://docs.kubewarden.io/operator-manual/airgap/install) 
for a step-by-step guide.

> `kwctl` [v1.3.1](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases/tag/v1.3.1) adds two new commands in order to support air gap: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have added new commands to `kwctl` [v1.3.1](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases/tag/v1.3.1) in order to simplify air gap deployment: 
```

(trying to reduce passive voice, which the Wordpress linter used to bark at me about quite often)

- `save`: saves a list of Kubewarden policies provided as input in a tar.gz file.
- `load`: loads Kubewarden policies from a tar.gz file into an OCI registry.

> There are helpers scripts that make easier the air gap installation. You can find them in our [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/tree/main/scripts)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are helpers scripts that make easier the air gap installation. You can find them in our [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/tree/main/scripts):
```

> There are helpers scripts that make easier the air gap installation. You can find them in our [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/tree/main/scripts):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are helpers' scripts that make easier the air gap installation. You can find them in our [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/tree/main/scripts):
```

> There are helpers' scripts that make easier the air gap installation. You can find them in our [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/tree/main/scripts):

Reviewer 3: Not a native English speaker, shouldn't the sentence begin in a different way:

```suggestion
There are helper scripts that make easier the air gap installation. You can find them in our [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/tree/main/scripts):
```

Author: not sure about this one. This came from divya's comment https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/153/commits/58b917ae78d39d337127cdd407f29f348067c06f

Reviewer: I did not know if we had multiple helpers or just a single helper. If we have multiple helpers then the current one is correct. If not, what Flavio suggested is correct.

Author: we have multiple, then it is correct as it is now.

- `kubewarden-save-images.sh` and `kubewarden-load-images.sh`, which take a text file with all the container images as input.
- `kubewarden-save-policies.sh` and `kubewarden-load-policies.sh`, which take a text file with all the policies as input.

From now on all Kubewarden [releases](https://github.com/kubewarden/helm-charts/releases) will contain a text file with  
all the container images required to use Kubewarden and another text file with the default policies. These files contain 

> the version of all the Kubewarden components in the name in order to make easier the air gap installation of a specific 

Reviewer: By this sentence do we mean to say that the files contain the names of the Kubewarden components along with their versions so that air gap installations are simplified? Or does it mean something else?

Author: yes, that is what it means

> all the container images required to use Kubewarden and another text file with the default policies. These files contain 
> the version of all the Kubewarden components in the name in order to make easier the air gap installation of a specific 

Reviewer 3: I  too find a bit confusing the sentence. What about:

```suggestion
all the container images required to use Kubewarden and another one with the default policies being referenced by the `kubewarden-defaults` chart. These
files can be used to perform the air gap installation of a specific 
```

Kubewarden version.

Give it a try and [reach out to us](https://kubernetes.slack.com/?redir=%2Fmessages%2Fkubewarden) if you have any questions 

> or to share your feedback!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or want to share your feedback!
```
